=Generation to Generation=
=Episode 28=
Xing?
I was wondering
why the magpies
wouldn't stop chattering.
So, Miss Cai is back
with the Young Master.
We...
I understand.
Understand what?
You stormed the execution ground
for the Young Master.
The whole sect already knows.
Throughout the sect,
everyone admires you.
They all say you're bold and decisive,
born to be one of us.
We've all agreed
you are our future lady.
What lady?
That's nonsense.
I'm not making it up.
Elder Yan agrees too.
Oh, right.
After Nie Zhe returned,
Elder Yan scolded him
in front of everyone,
saying he nearly ruined
the sect's foundation.
He couldn't kill Elder Yan,
so he locked him back
in the Jiuzhou Archive.
That does sound like Elder Yan.
Young Master, you may not know.
Nie...
Xing,
let the Young Master
and Miss Cai wash up first.
We'll talk about anything else
in the village.
Right.
Mr. and Mrs. Mu,
come with us.
Let's go.
Aren't you going to explain?
Explain what?
We...
Forget it.
You Guanyue is shameless.
Once he heard of the capture,
he defected to Nie Zhe.
I cut ties with him long ago.
Don't worry, Young Master.
Everyone's heart is with you.
Though you haven't led the sect
for long,
you've truly done
a lot for us.
We've all been hoping for your return.
He's done a lot?
Yes.
The Young Master exempted our taxes
and allowed us to travel freely
in the Hanhai Mountains.
Otherwise, how could Grandfather
and I go out?
Young Master,
when will you reclaim Bliss Palace?
Wait a little longer.
Listen to me rambling.
The Young Master is still injured.
Uncle Xue should be back
with the herbs soon.
Village Chief.
Speak of the devil.
I brought back every herb I could find.
- Give it to me.
- Xing.
- I'll go dry them.
- Sure.
Uncle Xue.
Miss Cai.
Long time no see.
Yes.
Well.
This is...?
Zhengyang?
What relation
are you to Zhengyang?
If I'm not mistaken,
the person you mentioned
should be his uncle,
Mu Zhengyang.
She was the best girl in the world.
Her heart is pure
like a clear sky.
Which family was she from?
What was her name?
Her name is
Pingshu.
She gave me
this wrist guard.
Did Mu Zhengyang truly love that girl?
Of course.
Zhengyang would've given her
his very heart.
When he came back that time,
he said
Pingshu had agreed to marry him.
Once he finished his great cause,
he'd choose an auspicious day to wed.
He even said
he'd bring her to meet me.
But
after that,
I never saw him again.
He's gone.
Actually,
I had already guessed.
I just
had no confirmation
and didn't want to face it.
By the way,
Pingshu...
She's gone too.
Life
is too unpredictable.
If Zhengyang hadn't gone
to do that great cause
and had chosen to marry Pingshu instead,
how wonderful that would've been.
The great cause Mu Zhengyang mentioned
must have been to reclaim
the Chief position
taken by Nie Hengcheng.
I don't understand.
If Mu Zhengyang truly loved my aunt
and had a feud with Nie Hengcheng,
why would he kill her close friends
and leave her to fight Nie alone?
I planned to find out
who the man in black is.
After killing Nie Zhe,
I'd seal the Youming Path,
restrain the sect members,
and prevent further conflict
with the Six Sects.
That way,
I could marry you openly and honorably.
But now,
I don't want to wait any longer.
I'm afraid of losing you.
Zhao,
let's get married.
Aunt.
Zhao.
The skin-painted demon.
Those people from the Six Sects
are nothing to fear.
That's good.
Shisan?
Miss Cai.
Wasn't it said Nie Zhe seized power,
and you were injured
and fled with Uncle Cheng?
I am unharmed.
Uncle Cheng heard the news
and sent me to protect the Young Master
and you.
Good that you're fine.
At the market outside,
there were a few spies
from the Six Sects.
Did you run into them on your way here?
They should be gone.
Where is Mu Qingyan?
Thanks to your snow lotus,
the Cold Spirit Powder poison
in my body has eased.
In that case,
I can return with peace of mind.
Return?
Zhao,
I know you're worried
about your master
and your parents
and want to go back to see them.
How about this?
Once the Six Sects stop pursuing us,
I'll go back with you.
It's been days.
They should've calmed down by now.
Just as you expected.
Just as I expected?
What do you mean?
Before entering the Hanhai Mountains,
I noticed
the Six Sects' pursuers dwindling.
Only today
did I confirm
they withdrew.
What method could make
the Six Sects abandon the hunt?
Did you seize their families?
Whom did you capture?
Zhou Yuqi?
Xinrou,
rest assured.
I've informed my mother.
I'll formally marry you soon.
Those rumors
will vanish
once we wed.
What's going on?
Mr. Zhou,
come with me.
Guangtian Sect and Siqi Sect
weren't spared either, right?
(Song Xiuzhi, Guangtian Sect)
Who?
Who are you?
Your father schemes day and night
for your sake.
Why wear that long face all day?
Mrs. Yang,
Miss Yang,
come with us.
Qingque Sect is heavily guarded
and hard to strike.
Taichu Temple is in chaos;
you have nothing to fear.
As for Luoying Valley,
whether you seize them or not
makes little difference.
Why would I do this?
This is your chain scheme,
and seizing the Six Sects' families
is the final link.
A chain scheme?
The opening move of your grand game
was to lure out Nie Zhe's remnants
and wipe them out in one sweep.
Defeating Nie Zhe is easy,
but uprooting the Nie clan's
decades-long foundation
is far harder.
Moreover, many
have feigned allegiance to you.
You can't launch a massacre.
So,
your second move
was to use yourself as bait,
enter the game personally,
come to Qingque Sect to see me,
and be captured on purpose.
That way, those hidden Nie loyalists
and the opportunistic turncoats
would expose themselves.
Nie Zhe is suspicious by nature,
and
the man in black behind him
knows the Six Sects inside out.
Without something real,
they wouldn't fall for it.
Once news of your capture spread,
they'd take the bait.
As for the final step,
you can use the hostages
in your hand to escape
and purge the sect.
Truly meticulous.
Every move is linked.
If that were true,
wouldn't I be some mighty monster?
Lord Qi often says
I'm a skin-painted demon.
It seems
you took those words to heart.
But have you thought about this?
If I wanted to seize
the Six Sects' families,
it'd take at least half a month
just to gather them.
There wouldn't be time for me to escape.
I'd still end up
with my martial arts crippled.
That was the most crucial move
in your game.
You were gambling.
You were gambling
on whether I'd defy my elders
and risk everything to save you.
Mu Qingyan,
you won.
Master,
please let him go.
From beginning to end,
everyone was within your calculations.
Even I
was just
a convenient chess piece,
right?
These herbs
will help clear
the remaining poison in you.
From now on,
take care of yourself.
I never saw you as a chess piece.
Zhao,
I know you can't bear to leave me.
♪If we never met♪
I can't bear to leave you either.
We promised to rely on each other.
You promised me.
Let go.
Mu Qingyan.
♪We already brushed past♪
Have some respect.
♪Love and hate, scattered in threads♪
Cai Zhao!
♪Holding you and me♪
♪Life spreads without boundary♪
The Six Sects' families
are in my hands.
♪Before death♪
If you dare leave,
I'll kill them.
♪We don't have to meet again♪
If you want to save them,
come with me.
Master,
all those sent to pursue Zhao
have withdrawn.
But Mu Qingyan hasn't released them.
They're in his hands.
We can only wait.
I said long ago
we shouldn't have captured Mu Qingyan.
He's a hot potato.
Now, look.
We lost Zhao
and several young heirs.
Mu Qingyan's foundation isn't stable.
I'm certain he wouldn't wage war
against the Six Sects
or harm those families.
As for some physical suffering,
that's unavoidable.
I never imagined
Mu Qingyan's schemes ran so deep.
If Zhao
was also within his schemes...
Rest assured.
Though Mu Qingyan
is skilled at disguising himself,
Zhao is exceptionally clever.
Her heart is as clear as a mirror.
She'll figure out
many things.
Once she understands,
she will return on her own.
Mu Qingyan has been captured!
It seems you
couldn't bear for me to die.
Mu Qingyan,
you lied to me again.
Welcome, Chief.
Mu Qingyan,
last time you hid for over a year.
Why so impatient this time?
I got a little bored waiting.
Is everyone here?
I suppose
no one would want to miss
such great merit as killing a Mu.
Mu Qingyan,
you're infatuated
with Cai Pingshu's niece.
For personal feelings,
you've repeatedly put the sect
in danger.
You're unworthy of being the Chief.
If you surrender now,
Chief Nie is merciful.
Perhaps he'll spare your life.
Zhao,
did you hear that?
The whole world knows
I'm hopelessly in love with you.
Shut up.
Don't tell me
this was part of your plan too.
Zhao,
don't you want to see us
avenge Uncle Chang?
Father.
You Guanyue. Shangguan.
So, Mr. Mu has learned
to use women and children as hostages.
Chief, you misunderstand.
I just discovered something shocking
and rushed here
to report it.
Chief,
no need to waste words.
Everything is in position.
Take your family and break out.
Mr. Yu,
no rush.
After all,
blades have no eyes.
If Mrs. Nie or your and her son
were injured...
You Guanyue,
stop your nonsense.
I've long heard that Mr. Yu and Mrs. Nie
were childhood sweethearts.
Coincidentally,
a few days ago, Elder Yan got drunk
and mentioned the Yu clan.
Their butterfly bone is distinctive.
There's a green mark along the bone,
and it's hereditary.
I wonder
whether Si'en...
You're courting death.
Chief,
You Guanyue is sowing discord.
Don't fall for it.
Was this arranged by you too?
To attack the enemy,
one must first attack the heart.
Si'en,
come to me.
Chief,
Si'en is your son.
Chief, this is their scheme
to divide us.
Chief.
Take off your clothes.
I've been loyal to the sect
and to you for decades.
Can't that outweigh his few words?
Chief.
Will you take them off or not?
Take them off.
Chief.
Chief!
There must be deceit here.
Why did you betray me?
I didn't.
You won't even acknowledge your son?
Si'en,
am I your father?
Father,
what's wrong?
I'm your son, Father.
No.
I'll kill him to make amends.
No!
Since you won't admit it,
I'll let him die before your eyes.
Don't hurt him.
He is your son.
Chief,
this is their scheme to divide us.
It's their scheme, Chief.
Shut up.
Since you refuse to believe me,
I'll trade my life for his.
Mother!
My adoptive father
showed me great kindness.
If not for him,
how would I have married
a foolish and petty man like you
and suffered such humiliation?
- I only pity my son.
- Mother!
Mother!
Don't leave me!
Wake up! Look at me!
Today, I'll kill this brat!
Mother!
Ruxin didn't lie to you.
That is your biological son.
Why didn't you believe her?
Why did you drive her to death?
You'd even kill your own son.
You've ruined the sect and ruined me.
Stop!
Who is the man in black?
Who?
I won't tell you.
Once I die,
the Six Sects will fall into chaos.
Sooner or later,
you'll all be buried with me.
Nie Zhe.
Nie Zhe!
Did I permit you to die?
You're not allowed to die!
Father!
Mother!
Father, Mother...
Guanyue,
issue the order at once.
Gather the men from each altar
and wipe out Nie Zhe's remnants.
Yes.
As for this child,
find him a good family.
Take him away.
Father...
Yes.
I don't want to go with you.
Father!
Mother!
All of this
was part of your plan.
I intended to use Yu Huiyin
to capture Nie Zhe alive
and learn
the man in black's whereabouts.
So, it means
that except for Nie Zhe's death,
everything went as you wished.
Suspicion is like wildfire.
A single spark can start a blaze.
Nie Zhe was always deeply suspicious.
Impressive tactics indeed.
Whether Yu Huiyin lived or died,
he'd surely grow estranged
from Nie Zhe after this scheme.
But why use Nie Zhe
to kill Li Ruxin?
I never meant for her to die.
Zhao,
you still don't believe me.
I don't believe you didn't foresee
this outcome.
Why?
Why do this?
Only by doing this
can black and white be separated,
and loyalty and treachery
be distinguished.
Only by doing this
can Bliss Palace
and the Hanhai Mountains,
you and I,
find true peace.
Now, everything is over.
Stay,
okay?
I don't understand.
Did you really have to go this far?
(Carefree)
Zhao.
I thought you left.
It's good you didn't.
The poison in you
must be cleared slowly.
Don't recklessly use your qi again.
I planted some blood-activating herbs.
They'll help you
dispel the poison and recover.
When you have time, brew them in water.
Add some goji berries and brown sugar.
It tastes good.
Zhao,
I'll release
all the Six Sects' families.
Except for Nie Zhe,
I'll give everyone a proper burial.
Once the purge is finished,
I'll order the Youming Path sealed.
We'll stay here forever
and never part again,
okay?
Oh, right.
Uncle Cheng just said
Xue Youfu needs me.
I'll go over first.
Fire starter.
Bamboo hat.
Straw raincoat.
You don't know.
Every altar is clearing out
the Nie remnants.
It's chaotic.
Those tied to Nie Zhe
are fleeing one after another.
These items are selling fast.
Miss Cai,
I saved a set just for you.
Thank you, Uncle Xue.
The Young Master just let them leave?
I heard from Master You
that he won't make things hard
for those who want to go.
As long as they leave
the Hanhai Mountains,
he won't pursue them.
I also heard
he plans to seal the Youming Path
and cut off contact
with the outside world.
Miss Cai,
is that true?
I'm not sure.
Uncle Xue,
if there's nothing else, I'll be going.
Miss Cai,
may I ask you something?
The Pingshu
Zhengyang spoke of...
Was she your aunt,
Cai Pingshu?
You guessed.
I wasn't certain before.
But when I was packing to flee,
I found a painting
Zhengyang made while drunk.
The woman in it
has a bearing like yours.
It was my aunt.
So, it truly was Cai Pingshu.
No wonder.
Zhengyang said Pingshu
was an extraordinary woman.
Uncle Xue,
what kind of person
was Mu Zhengyang?
=Generation to Generation=
♪The breeze is gentle,
and spring is fair♪
♪I roam the rivers and hills
in the martial world♪
♪With a shining cup,
I drink with delight tonight♪
♪Free to wander in the world♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I rest beneath the stars' soft gleam♪
♪The night is calm, still as a stream♪
♪It washes away all judgment and scheme♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I hold the bright moon
as I return home♪
♪I freely roam in the world♪
♪All I ask is that you go with me♪
♪I drink with the breeze,
lost in my dreams♪
♪I hold the bright moon
as I return home♪
♪I freely roam in the world♪
♪All I ask is that you go with me♪